Docs (GraphQL): 21.03 feature documentation for multiple @id fields in a type (#110)
dgraph-io/dgraph-docs: content/graphql/schema/ids.md

Dgraph requires a unique username when creating a new user. It generates the input type for `addUser` with `username: String!`, so you can't make an add mutation without setting a username; and when processing the mutation, Dgraph will ensure that the username isn't already set for another node of the `User` type.

In a single-page app, you could render the page for `http://.../user/Erik` when a user clicks to view the author bio page for that user. Your app can then use a `getUser(username: "Erik") { ... }` GraphQL query to fetch the data and generate the page.

Identities created with `@id` are reusable. If you delete an existing user, you can reuse the username.

Fields with the `@id` directive must have the type `String!`.

> As with `ID` types, Dgraph generates queries and mutations so you can query, update and delete data in nodes, using the fields with the `@id` directive as references.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with `ID` types, Dgraph generates queries and mutations so you can query, update, and delete data in nodes, using the fields with the `@id` directive as references.
```

It's possible to use the `@id` directive on more than one field in a type. For example, you can define a type like the following:

```graphql
type Book {
    name: String! @id
    isbn: String! @id
    genre: String!
    ...
}
```

> You can then use multiple `@id` fields in arguments to `get` queries, and while searching, these fields will be combined with the `AND` connective, resulting in a Boolean `AND` operation. For example, for the above schema, you can send a `getBook` query like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then use multiple `@id` fields in arguments to `get` queries, and while searching, these fields will be combined with the `AND` operator, resulting in a Boolean `AND` operation. For example, for the above schema, you can send a `getBook` query like the following:
```

Fields with the `@id` directive must have the type `String!`.

> As with `ID` types, Dgraph generates queries and mutations so you can query, update and delete data in nodes, using the fields with the `@id` directive as references.

Reviewer 2: This fixes the wording in question here. Thank you!

It's possible to use the `@id` directive on more than one field in a type. For example, you can define a type like the following:

```graphql
type Book {
    name: String! @id
    isbn: String! @id
    genre: String!
    ...
}
```

 You can then perform queries with filters containing multiple `@id` fields; the fields you specify will execute in the manner of an `and` operation. For example, for the above schema, you can send a `getBook` query like the following:

> 

Reviewer 3: Can you please change it to something like this:
`You can then use multiple `@id` fields in arguments to get queries, and  while searching these fields will be combined with "And" connective. For example, for the above schema, you can send a `getBook` query like the following:`

```graphql
query {
  getBook(name: "The Metamorphosis", isbn: "9871165072") {
    name
    genre
    ...
  }
}
```

This will yield a positive response if both the `name` **and** `isbn` match any data in the database.

> In a single-page app, you could render the page for `http://.../user/Erik` when a user clicks to view the author bio page for that user. Your app can then use a `getUser(username: "Erik") { ... }` GraphQL query to fetch the data and generate the page.

Reviewer 2: Should this be moved above line 58? It feels like we are switching to a new schema for Books and then going back to the User schema. I think it would flow better if this was closer to the User schema.

Reviewer 3: yeah, we should move this to above line 58.

```

With this schema, Dgraph requires a unique `username` when creating a new user. This schema provides the benefits of both of the previous examples above. Your app can then use the `getUser(...) { ... }` query to provide either the Dgraph-generated `id` or the externally-generated `username`.

{{% notice "note" %}}
If there are multiple fields with `@id`’s  in a type, then all of them will be nullable. If a type has a single field defined with either `@id` or `ID`, then that will be non-nullable. 

> {{% /notice %}}

Reviewer 3: Please change this to something like this

`If in a type, there are multiple @id fields, then in arguments to get Query these fields will be optional, and if in a type there is only one field defined with either `@id` or `ID`, then that will be a required field in the arguments of get Query.`

> If in a type, there are multiple `@id` fields, then in arguments to a `get` query these fields will be optional, and if in a type there's only one field defined with either `@id` or `ID`, then that will be a required field in the arguments of a `get` query. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If in a type there are multiple `@id` fields, then in a `get` query these arguments will be optional. If in a type there's only one field defined with either `@id` or `ID`, then that will be a required field in the `get` query's arguments.
```
